If you had total authority, how organizationally
would you place TTI?
Well, TTI, I'm unbiased in this question because
I've always fought to have TTI recognized as a part
of the system, just like other parts of the system,
T's, Ag Experiment Station, those. In reporting
through some manner to the chancellor's office.
We have gone the other direction.
I think that there have been proposals to put
some of the system parts back under the
university. I think that the system has grown so
big now that that's not a feasible solution. It's
not feasible to put them back under. Back under a
university because it seems to me we've always had
the problem of who is really running this ship? Is
this a system run by the president of the
university or is it a system run by a system
chancellor with presidents and directors of
agencies? And I know that while organizationally
on the chart, TTI with its little bitty operation
is basically the equivalent of the university.
Everybody, including us, know that's not so. We
are not first among equals. We are the last among
equals in that regard. But we don't have the same
kind of problems. And they don't need to all be
addressed the same way. Is there any advice that
you would give to TTI today for the future if you
were hired as its consultant? Yeah, the first
thing I'd say is let's not try to follow all of the
guidelines of the issue we were just talking
about, and that is of recruiting people. Let's try
to identify the people that we think we really
would like to have for the purposes that we want to
have those people here. get the best people we can
and not go through the torturing process that
makes it so difficult
to get a decision for them that they yes they would
really like to come here and go through all this
process or secondly that we have end up with people
who are average and that's all and uh if we can if we
can stay out of that the best way we can and stay out
of the courthouse, I think we'll be miles ahead.
OK. I've just about finished the questions I could
think of. What have we left out that we should have
included? I think it's been pretty thorough.
You've asked me more than I can respond to, I think,
what it is. So concluding questions that I ask
everybody. What has it meant to you that you
attended Texas A&M? Well, I don't think I would
have been nearly as successful in any endeavor
that I went into had I not attended Texas A&M. I
think A&M was a good crucible that allowed me to try
to get an education that I could make use of and
would give me some benefits of trying to deal with
the difficult problems that I'm going to have to
face what's going to have to face in the future of my
career and I think A&M has meant more than just to my
ability to make a living coming here it's I think
the whole process of having pride in an
institution is uh is worth a great deal if you can't
go to a place and spend your life and then say hey
this was a great place to be you started out in the
wrong place i think i think a m has done it not only
for me but i think it's done that same thing for
others as well all right next the last question
somebody walks up to you and hands you a check for a
million dollars with one condition You have to
pass it on to Texas A&M. You can define Texas A&M
however you want to. And the only condition is
you've got to pass it on, but you get to decide what
they do with it. What would you tell them to do with
your big gift? Well,
I've not really faced that problem yet. Let me
think about that just a moment.
One thing that I think we need to do with it, and a
million dollars is not going to solve the problem,
but it would help a whole lot, is that we need to have
some
funds available to award
promising young faculty that we think we can
identify that are going to be the stars in 15 years
from now. in this organization to be sure that
they're not bled away from us because we can't do
something for them to convince them to stay here.
And I think that if we can get the right people and
keep the right people, there's no end of what we can
do. But that, I think, is a real difficult thing for
us to do is to continue to be able to do that. I think
we've been very fortunate in the past and been able
to keep a bunch of people that had better
opportunity or more financially better
opportunities than a lot of other places. I think
that might be the first place I'd put it. Last
question. What feelings do you carry in your heart
for Texas A&M now? Very good. Great feelings for
A&M. I thought it's of all it's done and for the
opportunities that it has to continue to be a, a
major part. And I think that I've got hopes that
that's even going to be more rather than less in the
future. As we, one of the things that growth,
although I'm not a real growth proponent, but
growth has brought us, it's brought us visibility
in the sense that, uh, we are now one of the two
flagship universities in the state. And, uh, For
most of my views, we may be the leading flagship
university in the state because of the different
things that we do and do quite well. Now, I know
we're not ranked as high out of many of our academic
departments as University of Texas is, but I think
that there's a whole lot of inertia in that process
as well. Let's quit there.